
Topics:  

  axios instead of fetch

    Axios vs Fetch

      Axios - separate library which helps in handling API requests and other API related operations

        Instance: axios allows to keep multiple instances ( Multiple server instances with separate configurations )

          Eg:
            E-Commerce:
              Products: https://products.amazon.com/products
                Images, comments, reviews
                Deals a very huge amount of data
                Timeout may a bit more than the others

              Account: https://account.amazon.com

              Payment: https://payment.amazon.com

        It uses XHR for api interaction

        Reduces the JSON.stringfy and JSON.parsing ( response.json() )

        Interceptors:
          added advantage where we can intercept both request & response

      Fetch - JavaScript inbuilt API/fetch for handling API requests & other API related operations

      Fetch is also capable of doing all the things that axios can do

      But axios do those in a simpler way

  Redux:
  
    External library for state management using different reducers

    Install the package with ---> npm install @reduxjs/toolkit
    react-redux
    Chrome-Extension - redux-devtools

    Process:
      1. Store Setup with initial State and reducers
        for manipulation of the store 
          1. Store Setup
          2. Reducers to feeded to the store
          3. Actions to be executed on reducers
      2. Actions ()
      3. Reducers ()
      4. Consume the store values - Subscription
        hook in react-redux called as useSelector
      5. Dispatch --> action
         hook in react-redux called as useDispatch

  useReducer ( Redux like hook which help understanding redux )

  Large Applications uses Redux to Manage the 
    State, Actions, Data as a whole
  
  Example:
    Assume Gmail Application ( Doesn't Mean Gamil use Redux ) 
    uses a lot of components
      1. User ( mailid )
      2. Compose ( Subject, To, CC, BCC )
      3. Drafts ( Mail which is unfinished ) --> Drafts Count Increases
      4. Categories, Junk, Starred, Important, Chats.
    
    Also, Jira Board

    Above entities/features of application uses different types of Desgin, Interactions, States from minor/small frontend actions

    This case managing the state/data only with basic state( state, reducer, context) on inidividual components and passing the data to the required components is very difficult

    May lead to props drilling or more num of callbacks/re-renders

    So, 
    should we use redux everywhere for state managment in large applications

    everywhere redux should we use redux ?
    Ans: Depends on the size of the application & the Team's discussion and decision

Task:

  Day 28:
    Same task as previous task, but do it with redux.
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XX6bLW3MsJUGbnxl_PKW5POFe55Zxo590V24GNeSChY/edit#heading=h.fyv6vm4v13li

Next Session:

  useLayoutEffect
  useCallback
  useMemo
  lazy and suspense

  Form Validation

  Formik:
    External Library provides hooks for handling form validations
    Makes form validations easy

    Form Handling Library with useFull hooks 
    designed to handle form validations

    Yup: schema validation library usefull with formik or schema related structures